V

El astrónomo dijo: "¿Crees que el ruido era el aterrizaje de su nave?"

¿No crees que esto podría ser?

Si lo fuera, todos ellos podrían estar muertos.

Tal vez no. El industrial fruncio el ceño.

Si ellos han aterrizado, y todavia estan vivos,¿donde están?

Piensa sobre aquello por un tiempo. Todavía estaba frunciendo el ceño.

El astronomo dijo, No te entiendo.

Ellos pueden no ser amigables.

Oh, no. He hablado con ellos. Ellos han--

Has hablado con ellos. LLama a eso reconocimiento. ¿Cuál sería su siguiente paso?
¿ Invasion?

Pero tienen solo una nave, señor.

Lo sabes solo porque ellos lo dicen. Ellos pueden tener una flota.

Te he habado sobre su tamaño. Ellos ..

"Su tamaño no importaría, si tienen armas de mano que bien pueden ser
superior a nuestra artilleria."

"Eso no es lo que quise dicir."

"Tuve esto parcialmente en mente desde el principio". El industrial prosiguió.
"Es por esa razón que accedí a verlos después de recibir su carta.
No aceptar un oficio inquietante e imposible, sino juzgar
sus verdaderos propósitos. No contaba con que evadieran la reunión".

Él suspiró. "Supongo que no es culpa nuestra. Tienes razón en una cosa, de
todos modos. El mundo ha estado en paz demasiado tiempo. Estamos perdiendo el sentido
de la sospecha."any rate. The world has been at peace too long. We are losing a healthy
sense of suspicion."

La voz suave del Astronomo se elevó en un tono inusual y dijo, "Yo
_hablaré. Te digo que no hay razón para suponer que ellos puedan
posiblemente ser hostiles. Son pequeños, si, pero eso solo es importante
porque es un reflejo del hecho de que sus nativos mundos son puequeño.Nuestro
Mundo tiene lo que para ellos es una gravedad normal, pero debido a 
nuestro potencial gravitacional mucho más alto, nuestra atmósfera es demasiado densa para
apoyarlos cómodamente durante períodos prolongados. Por una razón similar
el uso del mundo como base para viajes interestelares, excepto para el comercio
en ciertos artículos, es antieconómico. Y hay diferencias importantes
en la química de la vida debido a las diferencias básicas en los suelos. Ellos
no podrían comer nuestra comida o nosotros la de ellos".

“Seguramente que todo esto se puede superar. Pueden traer su propia comida, construir
estaciones abovedadas de baja presión de aire, dispositivo especialmente diseñado
naves."

"They can. And how glibly you can describe feats that are easy to a race
in its youth. It is simply that they don't have to do any of that. There
are millions of worlds suitable for them in the Galaxy. They don't need
this one which isn't."

"How do you know? All this is their information again."

"This I was able to check independently. I am an astronomer, after all."

"That is true. Let me hear what you have to say then, while we walk."

"Then, sir, consider that for a long time our astronomers have believed
that two general classes of planetary bodies existed. First, the planets
which formed at distances far enough from their stellar nucleus to
become cool enough to capture hydrogen. These would be large planets
rich in hydrogen, ammonia and methane. We have examples of these in the
giant outer planets. The second class would include those planets formed
so near the stellar center that the high temperature would make it
impossible to capture much hydrogen. These would be smaller planets,
comparatively poorer in hydrogen and richer in oxygen. We know that type
very well since we live on one. Ours is the only solar system we know in
detail, however, and it has been reasonable for us to assume that these
were the _only_ two planetary classes."

"I take it then that there is another."

"Yes. There is a super-dense class, still smaller, poorer in hydrogen,
than the inner planets of the solar system. The ratio of occurrence of
hydrogen-ammonia planets and these super-dense water-oxygen worlds of
theirs over the entire Galaxy--and remember that they have actually
conducted a survey of significant sample volumes of the Galaxy which we,
without interstellar travel, cannot do--is about 3 to 1. This leaves
them seven million super-dense worlds for exploration and colonization."

The Industrialist looked at the blue sky and the green-covered trees
among which they were making their way. He said, "And worlds like ours?"

The Astronomer said, softly, "Ours is the first solar system they have
found which contains them. Apparently the development of our solar
system was unique and did not follow the ordinary rules."

The Industrialist considered that. "What it amounts to is that these
creatures from space are asteroid-dwellers."

"No, no. The asteroids are something else again. They occur, I was told,
in one out of eight stellar systems, but they're completely different
from what we've been discussing."

"And how does your being an astronomer change the fact that you are
still only quoting their unsupported statements?"

"But they did not restrict themselves to bald items of information. They
presented me with a theory of stellar evolution which I had to accept
and which is more nearly valid than anything our own astronomy has ever
been able to devise, if we except possible lost theories dating from
Beforethewars. Mind you, their theory had a rigidly mathematical
development and it predicted just such a Galaxy as they describe. So you
see, they have all the worlds they wish. They are not land-hungry.
Certainly not for our land."

"Reason would say so, if what you say is true. But creatures may be
intelligent and not reasonable. Our forefathers were presumably
intelligent, yet they were certainly not reasonable. Was it reasonable
to destroy almost all their tremendous civilization in atomic warfare
over causes our historians can no longer accurately determine?" The
Industrialist brooded over it. "From the dropping of the first atom bomb
over those islands--I forget the ancient name--there was only one end in
sight, and in plain sight. Yet events were allowed to proceed to that
end."

He looked up, said briskly, "Well, where are we? I wonder if we are not
on a fool's errand after all."

But the Astronomer was a little in advance and his voice came thickly.
"No fool's errand, sir. Look there."
