VI
6

Red and Slim had trailed their elders with the experience of youth,
aided by the absorption and anxiety of their fathers.
(Pero fue Slim quien estaba realmente emocionado. Atrapó al otro. "Lo sé
qué es esto. Es una nave espacial. Debe ser por eso que mi padre vino aquí.)
Their view of the final object of the search was somewhat obscured by the underbrush
behind which they remained.(Su visión del objeto final de la búsqueda estaba algo oscurecido por la maleza
detrás de la cual quedaron.)

Red said, "Holy Smokes. Look at that. It's all shiny silver or
something"
(Red dijo: "Holy Smokes. Mira eso. Es todo plateado brillante o
alguna cosa".)
But it was Slim who was really excited. He caught at the other. "I know
what this is.(Pero fue Slim quien estaba realmente emocionado. Atrapó al otro. "Lo sé
qué es esto.) It's a space-ship. That must be why my father came here.
He's one of the biggest astronomers in the world and your father would
have to call him if a space-ship landed on his estate."
(Es una nave espacial. Debe ser por eso que mi padre vino aquí.
Es uno de los mayores astrónomos del mundo y tu padre
llamarlo si una nave espacial aterrizó en su propiedad".)
"What are you talking about? Dad didn't even know that thing was there."(¿De qué estás hablando? Papá ni siquiera sabía que esa cosa estaba allí)
He only came here because I told him I heard the thunder from here.(Solo vino aquí porque le dije que escuché el trueno desde aquí.)
Besides, there isn't any such thing as a space-ship."(Además, no existe tal cosa como una nave espacial.)

"Sure, there is. Look at it. See those round things. They are ports. And
you can see the rocket tubes."("Claro que lo hay. Míralo. Mira esas cosas redondas. Son puertos. Y
puedes ver los tubos de los cohetes".)

"How do you know so much?"("¿Cómo sabes tanto?")

Slim was flushed. He said, "I read about them. My father has books about
them. Old books. From Beforethewars."(Slim estaba sonrojado. Él dijo: "Leí sobre ellos. Mi padre tiene libros sobre
a ellos. Libros viejos. De Antes de las Guerras".)

"Huh. Now I know you're making it up. Books from Beforethewars!"("Huh. Ahora sé que te lo estás inventando. ¡Libros de Beforethewars!")

"My father _has_ to have them. He teaches at the University. It's his
job".("Mi padre _tiene_ que tenerlos. Da clases en la Universidad. Es su
trabajo.")

His voice had risen and Red had to pull at him. "You want them to hear
us?" he whispered indignantly.(Su voz se había alzado y Red tuvo que tirar de él. "Quieres que escuchen
nosotros?" susurró indignado.)

"Well, it is, too, a space-ship."("Bueno, también es una nave espacial".)

"Look here, Slim, you mean that's a ship from another world."("Mira, Slim, quieres decir que es un barco de otro mundo".)

"It's _got_ to be. "It's _got_ to be. Look at my father going round and round it. He
wouldn't be so interested if it was anything else.("Tiene que ser. Mira a mi padre dando vueltas y vueltas. Él
no estaría tan interesado si fuera otra cosa".)

"Other worlds! Where are there other worlds?"("¡Otros mundos! ¿Dónde hay otros mundos?")

"Everywhere. How about the planets? They're worlds just like ours, some
of them. And other stars probably have planets. There's probably
zillions of planets."("En todas partes. ¿Qué hay de los planetas? Son mundos como el nuestro, algunos
de ellos. Y otras estrellas probablemente tengan planetas. Probablemente haya
millones de planetas".

Red felt outweighed and outnumbered. He muttered, "You're crazy!"(Red se sintió superado en peso y en número. Murmuró: "¡Estás loco!")

"All right, then. I'll show you."("Está bien, entonces. Te mostraré".)

"Hey! Where are you going?"("¿Eh! A dónde vas?"))

"Down there. I'm going to ask my father. I suppose you'll believe it if
_he_ tells you. I suppose you'll believe a Professor of Astronomy knows
what--"("Allá abajo. Voy a preguntarle a mi padre. Supongo que lo creerás si
_él_ te dice. Supongo que creerás que un profesor de astronomía sabe
qué--")

He had scrambled upright.(Él se había enderezado)

Red said, "Hey. You don't want them to see us. We're not supposed to be
here. Do you want them to start asking questions and find out about our
animals?"(Red dijo: "Oye. No quieres que nos vean. Se supone que no debemos estar
aquí. ¿Quieres que empiecen a hacer preguntas y se enteren de nuestras
animales?")

"I don't care. You said I was crazy."("No me importa. Dijiste que estaba loco".)

"Snitcher! You promised you wouldn't tell."("¡Snitcher! Prometiste que no lo dirías".)

"I'm _not_ going to tell. But if they find out themselves, it's your
fault, for starting an argument and saying I was crazy."("No lo voy a decir. Pero si ellos mismos se enteran, es tu
culpa, por empezar una discusión y decir que estaba loco.)

"I take it back, then," grumbled Red.("Me retracto, entonces", se quejó Red.)

"Well, all right. You better."("Bueno, está bien. Será mejor que lo hagas".)

In a way, Slim was disappointed. He wanted to see the space-ship at
closer quarters. Still, he could not break his vow of secrecy even in
spirit without at least the excuse of personal insult.(En cierto modo, Slim estaba decepcionado. Quería ver la nave espacial en
cuartos más cercanos. Aún así, no podía romper su voto de secreto ni siquiera en
espíritu sin al menos la excusa del insulto personal.)

Red said, "It's awfully small for a space-ship."(Red dijo: "Es terriblemente pequeño para una nave espacial".)


"Sure, because it's probably a scout-ship."("Claro, porque probablemente sea una nave exploradora".)

"I'll bet Dad couldn't even get into the old thing."("Apuesto a que papá ni siquiera pudo meterse en lo viejo".)

So much Slim realized to be true. It was a weak point in his argument
and he made no answer. His interest was absorbed by the adults.(Tanto Slim se dio cuenta de que era cierto. Era un punto débil en su argumento.
y no respondió. Su interés fue absorbido por los adultos.)

Red rose to his feet; an elaborate attitude of boredom all about him.(El rojo se levantó a sus pies; una elaborada actitud de aburrimiento a su alrededor.)
"Well, I guess we better be going.("Bueno, supongo que será mejor que nos vayamos.) There's business to do and I can't
spend all day here looking at some old space-ship or whatever it is.(Hay negocios que hacer y no puedo
pasar todo el día aquí mirando alguna vieja nave espacial o lo que sea.)

We've got to take care of the animals if we're going to be circus-folks.(Tenemos que cuidar a los animales si queremos ser gente de circo.)
That's the first rule with circus-folks.(Esa es la primera regla con la gente del circo)
They've got to take care of the animals.(Ellos tienen que cuidar de los animales)
 And," he finished virtuously, "that's what I aim to do,
anyway."(Y", concluyó virtuosamente, "eso es lo que pretendo hacer,
de todos modos.")

Slim said, "What for, Red? They've got plenty of meat. Let's watch."

"There's no fun in watching. Besides Dad and your father are going away
and I guess it's about lunch time."

Red became argumentative. "Look, Slim, we can't start acting suspicious
or they're going to start investigating. Holy Smokes, don't you ever
read any detective stories? When you're trying to work a big deal
without being caught, it's practically the main thing to keep on acting
just like always. Then they don't suspect anything. That's the first
law--"

"Oh, all right."

Slim rose resentfully. At the moment, the circus appeared to him a
rather tawdry and shoddy substitute for the glories of astronomy, and he
wondered how he had come to fall in with Red's silly scheme.

Down the slope they went, Slim, as usual, in the rear.
